>> Jen Kramer Now that you have your code
editor installed and you know a little bit
about file paths let's go ahead and
start putting that to work.
I am back here working on
my Macintosh computer.
Windows people,
you're following along with me.
You should be able to do exactly the same
things that I'm doing here with my Mac
with your PC.
So what you need to do is make sure
you have the VS Code Editor open and
then we're going to go to your
desktop where you should have
downloaded the web tools and
infrastructure folder.
Go ahead and click and
drag that on to VS Code.
And that will go ahead and
open up all of the folders and
files associated with that folder
over there on the left-hand side.
So what we're gonna do for
this exercise is we're gonna go
to the folder here called demo.
Go on ahead and
open up the folder called demo,
just click on it once to drop it down and
then click once on index.html.
And that's gonna show up over
here on the right-hand side.
This is all of the HTML that is
making up this particular webpage.
What's missing from this webpage
right now are all of the paths,
all of the things that we've been
talking about to this point in time.
So how do we link to our CSS?
How do we link to other pages?
How do we link to our images?
How do we link to our JavaScript?
So that's all missing from this webpage.
So even though you don't know HTML,
CSS or JavaScript yet,
this is a good exercise to gain some
understanding as to what each one of
these elements do, the HTML,
the CSS, the JavaScript, the Images.
And then how we link
them all together here.
So we're gonna start with just
taking a quick pick at index.html.
The easiest way to do that is simply,
open your folder on the desktop
called Web Tools and Infrastructure.
Go into the folder called Demo and
then double click on index.html.
And that's going to open up
the webpage right here by default.
And you just see,
it doesn't look like much at all.
And the reason why is because
this is plain old basic HTML.
We haven't linked this to the style sheets
to the images or to the JavaScript.
So what you're seeing here
is just playing raw HTML.
It's very usable,
it's very simple, it's very ugly.
And so if you have a page that looks like
this, this is typically an indicator
to you that there's something missing and
it's probably your CSS.
So that's a good place to look.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
start by linking to our CSS,
that's gonna be here on line number six.
Click in between the two
quotes that are there and
we need to link to our stylesheet.
Our stylesheet is in the CSS folder,
in that demo folder, and
it's called style.css.
So right here in between the quotes,
we can type in css/style.css.
Go in ahead and save that webpage,
and if you go ahead and
refresh you should see a change here.
Now, if you don't see the change
that I just showed here,
in other words the navigation bar went
horizontal instead of vertical, and
we have a new font in place here as
opposed to the old Times Roman that we saw
before down looking at Arial.
If you don't see those changes
then something wrong happened.
And it's typically one of two things.
One thing is right here,
either your path is wrong.
So make sure that path is correct or
two, you've made some typo in there,
you inverted two characters by mistake or
you forgot to put something in.
So double check to make sure it
says css/style.css or three,
you put in some capital letters in here.
Sometimes those capital letters
will make things blow up and
not work correctly, or four,
you didn't save the file first.
If you don't save the file when you
take a look at it in your web browser,
your changes will not be reflected.
So it's really important to save that file
first before you look in your web browser.
By the way,
that's a mistake that everybody makes and
we make it all the time.
So you'll get used to making that mistake
and you won't see your changes and
that will be one of the first
things that you check for.
Make sure that you saved your file before
you look at it in your web browser.
Okay, moving on here.
Let's go on down to lines 13, 14, and 15.
These are links, and what we are trying
to do is link to the homepage,
the about page, and the contact page.
And those are linking to other HTML files.
So we'll start with this first one here,
and once again after the h ref,
in between the quotes,
you'll see a pound or a hashtag sign.
Go on ahead and delete that and
we're going to substitute that
with index.html,
because that is actually our home page.
We don't need to put a folder name
in front of that that's because we
are on this page right now.
So we actually just made a link to our
self which it's kind of recursive, but
there you go.
Let's go ahead down to the next one here,
which is about.
We're gonna link to about.html,
okay, for the same reason.
We have a page over here called about.html
it's in the same location as index.html.
No folders involved, so
we can just type out that much.
And then finally, for the last one,
we're gonna link to our Contact page,
so contact.html.
And if you go in ahead and save that,
now we can go back to our web browser and
refresh the page, and up here on the top,
you can click on the About link.
We'll go to the About page, click your
Back button, click on the Contact link.
And we'll go back to the Home
page by clicking the Back button.
Notice that for example,
if I'm on the About page,
it looks like we're back to that
unstyled format again that's because
remember our About page is
not linked up to our CSS.
And those links that you see
there are not coded at all.
So we're going to have to go back
to our homepage to click the next
link to test it again.
We'll have to actually
code the about.html and
the contact at html pages with
these same kinds of features.
All right, so now that that's done,
let's go down to these images.
You'll notice that my code is scrolling
off the side of the page here.
And so now I have to side-scroll
in order to see the whole thing.
It is possible to turn on a word wrap,
and that would be
under View Make sure I'm in
my VS code by clicking on it.
And then if we go to View we're going
to go to Toggle Word Wrap which is
most the way down the view list there.
If you go ahead and
click that it will go ahead and
wrap those lines around so that you
can see things a little bit better,
all right, so these images
are inside right now of a comment.
Comments are those green lines.
You see the <!-- and then it ends with the
--> on the other end, that is a comment.
And it's a way of hiding little bits
of code or notes to yourself for
other kinds of documentation you
may want to have in a webpage.
In this particular case,
if I put up those image tags just
like that I would see broken images.
And you've seen those on webpages before,
they're the funny little icon with sort
of jagged looking pictures inside of it.
So we are gonna first of all start
by getting rid of those comments.
Just go and had delete those
characters on the front of that
paragraph and
then extra characters here on the back.
Here we go.
And now we are ready to
code path to these images.
So images are not inside the HTML,
they're their own set of files.
And we link to them here through
the image tag, that's the img, and
the path to them is through
that src the source.
Click in between the double quotes and
this time we're gonna go
to our images folder.
Inside of our images folder you'll
see that we have a boston-creme.jpg.
One picture, and we have
coconut-creme,jpg, a second picture.
So we'll go ahead and
put those paths here.
So, images/boston-creme.jpg and
then in the second one, we'll put in
images/coconut-creme.jpeg.
And if we go ahead and save that, we'll
go into our webpage and refresh again.
And you should have two lovely
pieces of pie there on your webpage
cuz who doesn't like pie?
All right the last thing we're gonna
add is our JavaScript our bit of extra
interactivity and functionality and fun.
And that's done exactly the same
way you've done so far.
So after line 22 which is linking
out to some javascript that lives on
the internet, we have a little bit of
code that we need to add on line 23.
Once again, right in between
the double quotes next to source,
that's where we're gonna put this.
And we're going to go to
our JavaScript folder, and
we're going to put in particles.js.
So we're gonna put in
javascript/ particles.js, and
if you go ahead and save that,
and you refresh your web page,
you should have some lovely, happy
bubbles floating around on your web page,
cuz who doesn't love lovely,
happy bubbles?
If these do not come up,
there's two possible problems.
Once again,
you could have spelled something wrong.
You could have capitals, where capital
letters were not wanted, and so forth, so
make sure you've spelled
exactly correctly.
The other thing that might be going on is,
because this particular JavaScript,
is relying on some code,
that comes from the Internet.
Make sure you are connected to the
internet and that the Internet is working.
If the Internet isn't working on your
computer at this moment, then you're not
going to see that JavaScript effect,
even if you've coded things correctly.
All right, so that is how to put
together this first web page.
I've given you two others,
an About page and a Contact page.
Go ahead and post the videos and see if
you can work through the about page and
the contact page pretty much exactly
as I've gone through this page here.
You're gonna do that same exact type
of thing with the about page and
the contact page.
So you'll go ahead and look at,
>> Jen Kramer Once again,
linking to your stylesheet,
linking to your Home, About, and
Contact pages and taking out the comment,
putting in a path to the images.
And making sure you have the right path
to your JavaScript file at the end.
Good luck.
Okay, so if you've gone ahead and
done it correctly.
This is the home page
that we did together.
If you go ahead and
click on the link for the about page,
it should look pretty much
like the homepage except now.
We have a cherry pie and
it says it's the about page and
then you should be able to
click on the contact link.
And go to the Contact page now with a nice
key lime pie with strawberry slices,
and all of those links should
work on all of those pages.
The links are probably purple in color
which indicates that you've visited those
pages before.
If anywhere along the way,
as you're clicking through these and
looking at other pages,
you see a blue link,
that's an indication that
that link is probably broken.
You probably didn't quite spell something
right, or you left off a character, or
something else funny happened
in your syntax so go back and
take a look at those lines again.
If you click on them,
you might get some kind of page error.
And likewise, if you don't see all
the images, if you don't see the particles
in the background, those are all
indications that the path is wrong,
you have a capitalization or spelling
problem or some other syntax problem.
Otherwise these pages should
hook together just fine and
you should be able to navigate through
your very first website with no problem.